the top B2B marketing challenges
companies face and how you can fix
[Music]
them welcome back to a fresh episode of
Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning and if
you want to join thousands of Legends
enjoying podcast episodes unusual btb
Market marketing and SEO tips then why
not join our newsletter over at breaking
bb.com and hit that newsletter tab so
today I've got joining me Greg kilstrom
Greg is consultant adviser speaker and
author over at the agile brand he also
hosts several top Enterprise marketing
podcasts including the agile brand B2B
agility The Innovation economy Greg
welcome to the show sir how are you
thanks so much yeah doing well yeah
thanks for having me no worries man
looking forward to to diving in so we
never mess around on this podcast we
always get straight into the the
tacticals the actionables so with that
why is marketing so often a bottleneck
for B2B companies
Greg yeah I mean I think there there's
there's a number of reasons but I think
you know anyone that's done B Toc
marketing and and kind of moved to to
B2B I I think there's some Stark
contrasts maybe if you've only done B2B
it's it's just kind of normal but but um
I kind of come from the B Toc and and
work work in both these days you know I
think there's there's complex
decisionmaking processes that just don't
occur you know when you're when you're
reaching B Toc you're generally reaching
one consumer maybe there's a household
but it's a you know that's a much
simpler thing than an org chart that who
who actually makes the decision who's
the first person you reach out to so you
know part of it just gets down to like
who do I who am I actually talking with
and who needs to hear the the message so
you know that's that's one thing I think
there's
internal like internal issues as well
you know just the I'm sure you T you've
talked about this plenty the the
salesmarketing dynamic
internally um there's some you know
sometimes it's a healthy Dynamic and
sometimes it's less than healthy is just
you know just how that goes um and then
you know even just I guess getting back
to the first part of you know just
figuring out who we're reaching just
attributing Roi and you know so if we
don't know exactly who we need to reach
um and if the sales cycle is super long
because we've got 20 people we need to
sell into in the org like what made the
difference in the sale and what was
marketing's contribution to that versus
sales and all that so you know that's
that's the short version I guess it
wasn't even that short h no yeah I I I
agree I mean I've seen seen hands on a
lot of these um and I think the first
one is is great the fact that when it
comes to B2B we often forget that there
are especially in the higher you go as
average contract value the the bigger
ticket the item usually the the more
folks that will be involved the more in
exacts would be involved in that buying
process and so often and I've been
guilty of of it in the past as well we
forget that we're not just marketing or
advertising to one person but there's a
whole team that need to to get bought
into the concept to the problem we're
trying to solve to the value that we're
bringing to the solution itself to the
financials the commercial value so it's
it's a whole Suite of team members
involved opposed to to just one person
that we need to get the green tick from
right right yeah and it's you know it it
takes on the sales side of that it takes
psychology to understand some of this
sometime you know i' I've as a
consultant and you know I owned an
agency for a while as well you know I've
I've been on the sales side of this as
as much as I've been on the marketing
side as well and so you know marketers
can write the most effective marketing
copy and and be on social and do the
right ad advertising and all that stuff
but you know sometimes it literally
comes down to a phone call between two
people at at a at a SE level that you're
just not going to reach with with
marketing and so you know I think that's
that's what makes it complicated but it
doesn't make it impossible it just makes
it it more
complex and then the second one sales
and marketing handoff or was it was it
sales and marketing handoff or was it
sales communicating with marketing or
it's kind of all of the above right it's
like you know it kind of depends on the
or right it's like in in some cases
there's a really you know there's a
healthy even you could almost call it
rivalry but like there's you know
there's a healthy dynamic
of okay well you know marketing
everybody wants the win but marketing
wants their share of the win in less
healthy environments sales kind of rolls
their eyes whenever marketing tries to
do something and they're like oh yeah
you know okay do what you want but we're
actually the ones that that end up
making the deals and you know I think in
the healthy scenarios it's you know
sales and marketing communicating really
well with each other um in the unhealthy
ones there's the you know there's the
classic silos and and and everybody just
kind of thinks the other is stepping on
their toes
almost yeah yeah yes we can we can dive
into that in a bit more depth in a in a
sec and was was the other one you
mentioned Greg's marketing's
contribution or was it yeah just
attribution and you know how do how do
we actually measure Roi in in all of
this and and who who was responsible for
that got it okay good stuff let's start
with those three so multiple decision
makers involved I suppose not so much
for lower ticket items if we're talking
like SAS like I don't know 10 bucks 20
bucks a month like small small ticket
where it's almost a no-brainer if you
need the offer you might even self-
serve yourself on the website and sign
up there and then for simple things like
calendar tools or or similar but I
imagine this is more applicable as we go
up to more complex deals and bigger
sales Cycles more complex kind of buying
committee and all that good
stuff yeah yeah definitely and I you
know I deal I deal quite a bit in the
Enterprise space so a lot of this is
coming from that um from that world so
yeah definitely you know and even in the
Enterprise world you know if to your
point if you're talking of you know 100
bucks a month or or less for a product
then there's discretionary budget that
would go towards that so that doesn't
apply but you know once you get north of
of of some of those figures then yeah
you know generally speaking it's you got
to figure out and and there's there's
even there's software to help map org
charts and decision makers and all that
and i' I've you know I've seen some of
those maps and it gets crazy and and it
changes and you know because there's
constantly turnover and all that stuff
too but you know you you have to kind of
have a strategy of okay we're gonna
we're gonna reach that you know Junior
midlevel person with some content and
get them engaged and we know that person
is going to influence kind of influence
upwards and stuff so you know that's uh
you know some of this gets down to you
know ABM you know account-based
marketing strategies and like okay well
how do how do we get our foot in the
door and then who do we actually need to
influence a lot of the marketing part of
this versus sales is you know how do we
just capture attention and um and and
get some awareness there from someone
probably again that's working in an
analyst capacity um and just needs to
show some options to their manager or
someone you know someone above them um
and then you know then generally there's
probably going to be a sales handoff at
that
point how do you usually advise
companies when it comes to mapping out
who's involved in these kind of process
in terms of their ideal client profiles
and who they might need to
Target yeah I mean it's I I wish it were
easier because every you know there
there is no one way to structure an
organization so it's and and or a
department or even a team and so you
know it's I think it's um I caution to
not over complicate the process and I
work more on the marketing side than I
do on the sales side in in that advising
so on the sales side like I said I've
I've seen I forget the names of the of
the platforms themselves but you know
even a good CRM should have some of the
stuff in it but you know they'll they'll
map the that kind of decisioning process
on the marketing side I think we keep it
a little simpler and we just say okay
we're probably talking to you know I'll
just pick an arbitr we're probably
talking to three levels of people here
and you know one one level is like
responsible for just Googling you know I
have XY problem and you know so what are
the best solutions for my industry or
whatever so let's let's create some
content around that then we're probably
going to have to get one level up from
that what what are their problems you
know kind of even going through the
funnel stage like General awareness
versus a little more informed and and
creating competitive sets and then you
know in in B2B you know if we were
talking B Toc it would be you know we we
try to get them to convert and purchase
or something generally speaking with B2B
then it's like okay how do we get this
person to um talk to a salesperson and
and close the deal yeah yeah I'm I'm
guessing customer research plays a a
decent part in this to actually
understand how that those Target
prospects you're going after typically
buy and like you say if it is a larger
scale Enterprise deal it might be once
you going to speak to some recently W
clients you understand that they usually
have one of the analyst teams like you
say do a Google Search and then they'll
pull some information then maybe share
that with their manager right and then
from there they perhaps bring on board
the exec team and then eventually
finalize three three vendors that then
they'll have more detailed conversations
with and I guess just getting to grip
with that that flow of how your target
market actually like to research and
yeah and I think it also come it also
comes down to you know then what's the
role of marketing in that you know when
you're when you're halfway three
quarters through the funnel like what's
the role of marketing in that you know
because you wanna you want to complement
the sales team but you don't want to
step on their toe you know if if the
salesperson just had a really good
conversation about a feature of the
product or or or Serv that they're
wanting to buy and you send them a
marketing email that's like way out of
left field and and has nothing to do
with that then all of a sudden you're
actually creating friction in the
process not helping so it's that that
requires alignment with
marketing you mentioned about content
providing content to influence any tips
that kind of B2B company should consider
on on this strategy yeah I mean just
being aware of where the customer is you
know in in that process you know so if
they're I I look at the the the journey
and it's not that different from from B
Toc it may just be quicker in with B Toc
versus B2B but it's like you know out of
the at the awareness stage like the
company doesn't even really know they
know they have a problem but they don't
know what the solution to their problem
is so they're looking for they might be
looking for you and uh someone that you
don't even consider a competitor because
they don't really know what problem
they're trying to solve so like that
that initial stage and you know probably
some of this is is a little bit like you
know marketing 101 even but like just
try to educate them on okay this is the
problem that we solve because the other
thing you want to protect yourself
against is it's nice to have leads but
man it's costly to have a bad lead
that's not a good fit so you know it
would be better to lose a lead that's
that was never a good fit in the first
place than to just kind of take up
marketing and sales time and all that
stuff so you know get the right people
in the funnel and then get them to the
next stage which is they're comparing
you against your actual competitive set
at that point you're diving in on
differentiators and and all that kind of
stuff you're you're you're assuming they
know what the problem is that they're
trying to solve and and how it likely
gets solved um so you know just again
tailoring your content based on where
someone is and then you know when
they're further in the funnel then it's
really talking with your sales team and
being like okay what would what would
influence at this point is it an
automated email or can we give you a PDF
or a webinar link to like send them
manually and you know how can marketing
support and not you know again stand in
the
way is that are there many mistakes you
see when it comes to because I've seen
Plenty when it comes to to serving
content to the the prospects especially
when we're talking bigger size
deals um because I know one I see a lot
is is kind of forcing folks to do
something too early something I talk
about on on B2B websites all the time
like there's cool to actions like smash
through every page like I can understand
on a homepage and your main menu have to
to drivew someone to book a demo but if
someone's researching something like how
to do XYZ or best ways to do Zed and
they stumble upon an article that might
be educational but at the same time
trying to position your offer as the
solution to that problem if you're
trying to force a demo down the neck
three seconds within first seeing your
company for the for the first time ever
it might be a little bit too pushy you
might want to consider Drive guiding
them to some more content or to a
podcast or to a bit more educational
material but I'm not sure if you see
kind of companies make similar mistakes
or any different ones yeah totally and I
think this is the I mean completely
agree with what you're saying and I mean
this is where I see the the shift to and
you already mentioned you know this idea
of self-service is um so big because you
know I don't some B2B marketers may
forget like we're all B Toc uh we're all
consumers in in real life right you know
at work we're B2B buyers but in some
cases but um you know we're so used to
this like everything you know at a
moment's um you know within within
moments and customizable and this and
that and I don't know about anybody else
but like I don't like talking I don't I
don't look forward to talking to
salespeople on the phone um there are
times when it's very approp rate and I
wouldn't want it any other way but there
those times are seldom and um you know I
think this moved to a self-service and
like let me try something out let me let
me look at it more deeply before someone
is like pounding me to buy something and
sign something you know to your point
even even the call to action on a page
like it's it feels intrusive when you're
just not quite there yet so I you know I
see this self-service Trend in general
as just a positive
and I know a lot of sales people and and
B2B orgs out there are reluctant to try
it I totally get why they're they're
worried they're you know if only we
could talk with them we'd you know cinch
the deal or whatever but yeah I think
it's a false
premise yeah I think we're we're on
probably the we're singing off the same
Hy sheet on on that side of things
because I'm constantly talking that so
many B2B companies are I call it scared
to being trans scared at being
transparent in the sense that they want
to capture quote unquote leads at all
costs through their website or through
their landing pages or through their
initiatives but as a result because
you're pushing so hard to capture that
contact information a lot of those folks
a lot of those call them mqls call them
leads whatever you want to call them are
going to be not qualified because you
have forced them to speak to sales so
whether that's hiding your pricing on
your website whether that's not openly
sharing a demo or a video run through of
how the tool or the software works or
not addressing some common objections or
questions that you get raised on sales
calls on key Pages it's
just it might feel like those things add
more friction but at the same time they
they give you less quote unquote leads
but they give you more qualified
conversations which probably is going to
make your sales team a bit happier right
yeah yeah totally yeah and I I think
it's consumers whether they're B2B
consumers or B Toc consumers you know
consumers are just getting smarter about
all this stuff we're getting wise to
like old school marketing tactics and
you know some of it may is generational
but it's not all I mean I'm I'm not gen
Z or Millennial you know like I'm you
know we're there there's a lot of people
that are um that are getting wiser to
these old school tactics that are just
you know maybe they worked but or maybe
they were just the only way that that it
was done I think these days there's just
there's better ways and to your point
there's a cost to acquiring an mql that
isn't really an mql right so like that's
I think that's what smart organizations
are seeing is like okay yeah we get a
few less leads but we get better leads
and and we're wasting less salesperson
time and we're frustrating I mean those
customers that may not be great
customers now they may be good customers
later but they may be so frustrated with
your sales process that they go to your
competitor because they had a bad
experience so it's you know it's it's
thinking a little bit longer term about
all this stuff um helps as
well yeah it's true it's true and I do
see the other side of the coin because I
know a lot of B2B companies especially
in Tech might be VC funded so they might
have a ton of pressure to hit certain
mql or lead goals and that almost
encourages a lot of those bad habits so
things are hiding pricing hiding a demo
trying to get someone to fill out a form
at all costs even though in the back of
the the marketing team's mind they might
think I know these leads are't going to
be
qualified yeah yeah it's know it's it's
true it's it's there there's there's
competing priorities right it's um it's
it's hard to it's hard to balance them
but you know I ideally you you you
strike the best balance you can yeah
cool let's move on to the second one so
sales and marketing handoff SL rivalry
who gets the credit for the win to talk
us through kind of some issues you see
around this Greg when you're dealing
with B2B
companies yeah I mean I think uh you
know it's it comes down to this this
whole idea of attribution and you know
it's there's there's lots of ways of
calculating attribution but in a purely
like digital process you could say you
know there's a first touch or a last
touch attribution there's more complex
ways of doing it as well of course but
um just to simplify things here you know
if we were to do last touch attribution
for every single be to be lead sales
would always get the credit for
everything right um so you know it um
that's kind of the world that that a lot
of a a lot of businesses still live in
is okay yeah you know what is the there
there's kind of a question of the value
of marketing and you know I could say
there there might act there might be a
legitimate reason for that that
marketing really isn't bringing in um as
good leads or to what you were just
saying you know maybe there's also
external pressures that are not getting
the best leads but that aside how things
are attributed um when it becomes a
rivalry of like oh well you know sales
always closes the deal so what did
marketing really do in this you know
that's that's not a setup for success
that's a setup for you know just a
dysfunctional relationship at at best I
would say better would be this really
close communication of sales telling
marketing what they need marketing
listening to what sales needs and having
a true handoff of um and and a true
partnership in that and I've seen that
i' I've talked with places where that
exists it's not you know it I know it
sounds utopian but it it does exist it's
just I think the the norm and kind of
The Stereotype is is this sort of setup
of like well what does marketing really
do who knows right they they just go
online hang out on LinkedIn and do a few
social right
well I'm awaiting the hate mail from a
few thousand B2B marketers as I speak um
so with that but do I know you said
sales telling marketing what they need
and and vice versa do sales know what
they need though Greg from your
experience
or it's a good it's a great question um
it leads everybody to need to be more
data driven and I think that's that's a
big Challenge and that's you I'll pick
on sale I I know I was picking on
marketing for a minute there but like
you know to pick on sales a bit you know
there's a lot of Reliance on you know
the The Talented salesperson that just
has the right like gut instinct and you
know this worked really well at this
place with this in this scenario this
anecdotal evidence and you know I just
that works until it doesn't and and it
doesn't more often than it does and I
sorry for the it's little convoluted
there but in other words we need to get
much more data driven sales needs to get
way more data driven you know the the
sophisticated orgs that are really being
smart about
datadriven strategies and
approaches and the marketing teams that
are getting really smart about data
driven approaches those when those teams
talk together and share real stuff not
just like again the anecdotal stuff of
like oh well I did it this way at this
place and I made my
quota how is that helpful in 2024 you
know so but so I I think it comes down
to data and and really being driven by
that stuff and that that's a tough thing
to overcome there's egos to overcome
which are really tough to
overcome have you got any examples of
kind of how you should be using data and
what data points that both the marketing
and the sales side should should look to
work
on yeah I mean I think just having
trying to align to the same end goals
and kpis you know what whatever those
might be I mean Mark marketing's going
to have their own you know kpis and and
and sales will have their own as well
but if if we can align to the same
dashboard this a joint dashboard so to
speak of okay let's let's look at okay
well this was a lead we made you know we
we made x amount of dollars in you know
in gross revenue from it but what was
the cost of that lead you know when we
start getting like cost per acquisition
C you know stuff a little bit deeper or
even you know lifetime value of a
customer when we start looking at these
deeper metrics and then start working
backwards from okay well what did it
take to do that like marketing spent a
ton of dollars on Advertising to that
specific customer sales spent a bunch of
time all of a sudden the value of that
lead as anecdotal and you know great as
it is to have this logo on our site or
whatever like the cost of that lead the
value is not very high and so getting
everybody to actually be driven by those
kinds of
conversations then we start getting away
from again this this this anecdotal
stuff and and this gut instinct and and
and all that got it so work working
together to to the same North Star
metrics it sounds
like yeah yeah absolutely that's a much
um shorter way of saying it than I did
yes it sounds a lot fluffier though it's
a lot easier for me to say now you said
it so are there when it comes to when it
comes to attribution itself and claiming
credit what what do you see works well
for for B2B companies in general because
I know there's there's so much you could
dive into on an attribution side right
from initial how did you acquire the
lead there's been a lot of conversation
over the last couple years about adding
Fields into your calendar booking or
your inquiry forms around how did you
hear about us because you don't
necessarily want to rely on a last click
which might flag up as they inquired
through a Google ad or Google search or
elsewhere when they actually first heard
your CEO on a podcast Then followed your
company on LinkedIn for half a year then
read a bunch of your blogs then click to
Google ad um and then obviously right
through the funnel if it's a large scale
deal they might consume a ton of your
content speak to a few of your sales
team consume a bunch of your ads on
LinkedIn continue to listen to your
podcast then eventually sign the
contract so there's so many touch points
both from before they've engaged you a
company right through to when they've
eventually signed the contract and and
paid the
check yeah I mean it's it it's
definitely it's not a it's not a
straightforward and and simple thing and
I mean you just described some some
great examples of man that's really hard
to I I wish that we had better podcast
metrics than we do of like literally
who's listening and all that stuff but
yeah that all that stuff aside you know
it's to make data driven decisions you
need better data and so you know do it
where you can and where you can't um you
know it's it is it is what it is but
like you know this is like the classic
uh sales people need to update their CRM
and marketing needs to just do the best
possible attribution that you can and um
this is where you know I mean like
customer data platforms cdps a lot more
common in in the betc space but this is
where cdps are starting to from what I'm
seeing um make some more inroads into
the B2B World it becomes super
challenging with the you know there's 10
different people at a company that might
be you know accessing on 20 different
devices and all that stuff like it
becomes a real challenge um even for for
a good CDP to um to unify all this stuff
in the right way but it's start with
where you can start which is like when
you talk with someone fill out the
record in the CR you know like do what
you can um and then you know the the
rest um do your best uh you know to your
point ask ask where you can people don't
always answer the in the right way or
not even intentionally but to your point
you know they may have actually seen a
you know a podcast episode three years
ago and forgot that they did but um you
know do I guess do you know do the best
that you possibly can but that's you
know that's not a reason to say oh it's
too complicated let's not try it's it's
just a reason to get better and better
you know as as as good as you can got it
cool so we've talked about kind of
dealing with with multiple folks in the
decision process we've talked about kind
of attributing deals and sales and
marketing work working together to to
wrap up Greg is there any other kind of
painful ones that you see on the
marketing side when you're dealing with
B2B
case yeah I mean I think
um a lot of what I try to focus on these
days is you know
taking marketing further with things
like personalization and you know I I
don't think that we T talk we mentioned
AI yet today so like of course I I feel
like it's obligatory these days to at
least mention it but like this does
become challenging you know how do you
personalize when you don't know all the
roles in the compan company and and who
exactly you're talking to and what stage
they're in so you know I think marketers
are getting a lot of pressure to use Ai
and do personalization and do all that
stuff but they're challenged because for
the pretty much every reason we've
already discussed like they they don't
know where where someone is in the org
they don't know what stage they're in
they are not even always necessar
necessarily sure what's going to be the
most helpful thing at the stage that
they're in so
I think it just all comes back to you
know get the best data that you can and
map out you know map out things both
internally to the org you're selling
into as well as possible but also your
own stages that you want PE to guide
people through and it you know you got
to start somewhere and so it's not going
to be perfect but I mean you know I'm a
I'm a huge proponent of of agile
principles and you know you got to start
somewhere and iterate and and get better
from there
how much do you think B2B companies
should lean into AI because I've
probably got quite a bad perspective
compared to yourself like I've seen so
many websites where they've come to us
to help with SEO but then we've We've
ran their content through like AI
generators and we're like 80 90% of this
is AI generated like it's full of words
like supercharged 10x like Tech Wizardry
and all these words your prospect would
never say in a in a normal day-to-day
conversation and at the same time it's
probably not really going to rank on
Google let alone resonate with those
folks who actually want to build trust
with and convert so I'm probably at the
bad end of the the Eye Spectrum on using
it as a kind of too much of a tool
rather than a sister but I'd like to
know what your thoughts were yeah
definitely I mean I think you know first
of all you need to have a really good
use case for it so I mean I I write a
newsletter called AI isn't a goal or a
strategy um you have to have a use case
that AI can be applied too and and
there's lots of there's lots of cases I
mean don't yeah please don't just get it
to write your website content by um but
by for any reason it doesn't mean that
it can't help you write your website
content but don't just like go to chat
GPT and say I need a homepage and I sell
widgets um you know definitely
definitely not the the right approach
like what's the what's the problem
you're trying to solve I this doesn't
just apply to AI I think it applies to
life it's like you know let's let's pick
the pro the biggest pain points that we
have if a big paino is creating content
find the parts of the content creation
process that AI could be helpful with
but not ruin things by to your point
using weird words and and and stuff like
that like okay we need an outline for a
page okay cool go to chat gbt and like
say hey I need an outline for a product
page and here's what we sell give me you
know give me some ideas and then write
the content for it because you know it
better than um you know than a a large
language model might so um but you know
geni that's not even the only way that
AI can help I think there's a lot of
efficiency improvements and you know I'm
I I use I use
automation all day long every day to
help myself because I run a pretty lean
operation but I I can get a lot done
because I automate a lot of things so
that's that's a whole other way of
looking at AI predictive analy itics
that's a whole other way of looking at
AI as well on you know propensity churn
you know all those kinds of things so
it's like I think when the smart orgs
that are using AI well are they're
really looking at we don't have to just
use it the way that someone told us we
could like let's let's solve some real
problems and real pain points and then
apply but test and make sure that it
works first and then um you know then
then you know prove the model and and
either it works or it doesn't but if if
it's proven then then keep
going nice one nice way to wrap up so
with that Greg I appreciate you taking
the time to come on the show please do
share more about how the audience can
learn more from yourself connect with
you and the best way to get in touch
yeah absolutely so um couple couple
things so I'm very active on LinkedIn so
please reach out would love to would
love to connect with you there I host a
B2B podcast of my own called B2B agility
uh you can find it on Spotify Apple um
pretty much anywhere so would love to um
would love for you to take a listen and
and let me know and you can go to my
website it's Greg kilstrom decom so um
and would love to see you there as
well awesome man and we'll check all
those links in the show notes below and
with that I want to thank you once again
for coming on Greg yeah thanks so much
really really enjoyed it no worries man
and as always if you did enjoy today's
show why not check out the newsletter
over at breaking bb.com and join
thousands of Legends getting our unusual
B2B marketing tips SEO ideas and
checking out recent episodes and with
that I want to thank you for tuning in
we'll catch you on the next one for more
nobs B2B marketing tips to grow your
business and grow your Revenue catch you
on the next one
[Music]